in the quest for alien worlds a team of
Swiss French and Portuguese astronomers
have found a most remarkable system they
have discovered the most earth-like
planet outside our solar system to date
an exoplanet possibly having liquid
water on its surface and with a radius
only fifty percent larger than the earth
the system is moreover in our galactic
neighborhood located only about 20
light-years from us the discovery was
made at the ESO la SIA Observatory in
Chile we have discovered a very low-mass
planet in fact it is the lowest mass
ever discovered it's only five times the
mass of the earth this planet is
probably a rocky planet maybe fifty
percent larger than the earth for a very
low mass planet orbiting the star with a
beard of certain days the planet
completes a full orbit in 13 days it is
14 times closer to its star than the
earth is from the Sun however because
its host star is a red dwarf the planet
nevertheless lies in the habitable zone
the region around a star where water
could be liquid our dis planet is very
exciting because at the distance of the
planet from the star we expect water to
be present on the surface of the planet
and when you speak about water you may
speak about life in fact what the
astronomers have unveiled is a complex
system of three low-mass planets the
first one a fifteen earth-mass planet
was discovered by the same team two
years ago and orbits the star in five
days the second one is the five
earth-mass planet in the habitable zone
and a third planet has also been
detected with a mass of eight times the
earth it lies further out and takes 84
days to complete a full orbit the system
is also very interesting because the
central star allows very close to us in
the galaxy most of the stars are very
low mass
object in fact job as a star we are
discussing it's only one third of the
mass of the Sun and it's one of the
closest neighbor it's only about 20
light-years from us
because such planets are small and
hidden in the glare of the star it is
very difficult to see them directly to
detect them astronomers rely on indirect
techniques the most successful one being
the radial velocity method a planet in
orbit around a star will show its
presence by pulling the star in
different directions there by changing
its measured velocity in a very regular
way however these changes are tiny of
the order of a few meters per second and
the most precise measuring machines are
necessary to make this incredible
discovery the astronomers used one of
esos telescopes the 3.6 meter telescope
located at lasya in Chile attached to
this telescope is the harps spectrograph
that can measure velocities with a
precision better than one meter per
second these detections were made
possible thanks to measurement obtained
with harps the instrument that is
presently the most precise one in the
world to measure the radial velocity of
stars with this instrument we already
have detected 11 among their 13 lightest
known planets the newly found super
earth will certainly attract a great
deal of attention especially from
space-based astronomy missions that will
look for life in the universe meanwhile
however the astronomers do not plan to
rest and have other ambitious goals
presently we are still not at the limit
of the possibility of arms so I can
anticipate that we have the paucity to
still detect more smaller planet may be
to us maths and so on and this is very
challenging goal